In this video, we'll go over how to write a Java program in a simple text editor like Notepad and Compile 
and execute it directly from the command line. Maybe you're just starting out in Java and you want to know 
how you can run your programs from the command line. Or maybe you've been programming in Java for a while, 
but you've only run your programs in an IDE like Eclipse. Either way, I've got you covered. My name is 
John. I'm a lead Java software engineer and I love sharing what I've learned with you in a clear and 
understandable way. I also have a full Java course available in a link down in the description. If you're interested. 
Let's get right to it. Okay. First, there's only one thing you have to have installed to get this to 
work properly, and that is the JDK the Java Development Kit. If you've already got it installed, awesome. If not, 
just follow a link down in the description to go and download it, run the installer. It should just take 
a couple of minutes and you'll be good to go. Let's get started by opening the command prompt window. To 
do that, just go to the Start menu, type in CMD, and press Enter. I'm doing this in Windows Eleven, 
so if you're doing this in Windows Ten or any other version of Windows, it might look a little bit 
different, but it should still work the same way. First, let's just make sure that the JDK is correctly installed 
so we know we'll be able to run our Java programs properly. To do that, you can just type in 
Java Space version and hit Enter. If you see something like this, print out that shows the current version of 
Java that you have installed, you're good to go. If you see some kind of error like Java is not 
recognized as a command, that means you don't have the JDK installed. So go and do that in the link 
down in the description first. Next, we just want to go to whatever folder on your computer that you want 
to use to put your Java program for me, I'm just going to put it on the desktop here, so 
I've just navigated to my desktop folder. Next, let's create the file for our Java program. To do that, just 
right click anywhere here in the folder and go to New and Text Document. Then just type in whatever you 
want to call your Java program. I'm going to call mine. Hey there Earth. Everybody always calls there's Hello World. 
So let's just change it up a bit, then hit Enter to create it. But this just creates a. Txt 
file, not a Java file. And we need to create a Java file to run our program properly. So to 
change this to a Java file, you need to go up to the menu where it says View and then 
go to Show and click File Name extensions again, I'm using Windows Eleven. So this is what it looks like 
for Windows Ten. It's very similar. Just go to the View tab at the top and click the checkbox for 
file name extensions in the Show hide section. So now we can see it has the. Txt file extension to 
change that to Java, just right click and go to rename. Or you can also just hit the F two 
key to rename and change the file extension from. Txt to Java and hit Enter. You'll probably get a warning 
about changing the file name. Just go ahead and click yes. Next we want to open this file so we 
can write our program in it in Notepad. So just rightclick the file and go to open with and if 
you don't see Notepad in this list like I don't have Notepad, just go to choose another app and then 
here you might have to click more apps to show more applications and then Notepad should show there. So just 
Select Notepad and click okay, that'll open your hey there Earth program right here in Notepad. This is where you'll 
put whatever code you want for your Java program. We'll keep this one very simple class. Hey there Earth. Create 
our public static void main method string. Args we'll just have it print out hey there Earth. Close the method 
and close the class to save the file. Just go to file and save or just hit CTRL s. Next 
let's go back to the command line and navigate to the directory where we made our Java program. So for 
me, since I put it on the desktop, I just need to type in CD desktop to change my directory 
to the desktop. And if I want to make sure I'm in the right directory, I can just type in 
D-I-R and here I can see my Hatherearth Java program ready to go. So now what do we enter to 
run our Java program? Well actually before we can run it, we have to compile it into something that the 
computer can understand and run called Bytecode. To compile it, we'll use the Java C command Java C for the 
Java compiler. Makes sense, right? So just type in Java C and then the name of the file that you 
want to compile. So for me it's hey there Earth Java. Make sure you put the Java file extension in 
there or you'll probably get some kind of error. So just enter that and then press Enter. If you don't 
see any output at all, you don't see any errors or anything, that means that it worked. And to verify 
that you can go back out into your folder and see that it created a class file for your program. 
So here it's Haythairearth class. This is the bytecode file that I was talking about. So now your program is 
in a form that you can execute directly. If you have some kind of error in your program, like let's 
say you didn't end your quote or something. When you go to try and compile your program hey there Earth 
Java you'll get a printout showing where it's running into the compilation error. If you get something like that just 
go into your file and fix it, save it and run the compiler again. So like I said now our 
program is in bytecode form that we can run so what's the command to actually run it? Just use the 
Java command not Java C, just Java and then the name of your program. So hey there Earth for this 
command you don't need to type out the Java file extension and then press enter so it printed out hey 
there Earth and that's what our program was supposed to do so it ran successfully so doing it from the 
command line is a little bit more work than just clicking the run button in your IDE. But it's not 
really too hard, it just takes a couple of commands and it's just something that every Java programmer should know. 
You should know how to run simple Java programs from the command line like this. If you enjoyed this video, 
video or learned something, please let me know by leaving a like and be sure to subscribe for tons more 
great Java tutorials and continue your Java learning right now with one of these videos below. As always, thank you 
so much for being here with me, I'll see you next time. 